# eos_grub_loader

## What
A Linux/Grub2 boot loader for EOS (alternative to aboot). This does NOT include EOS, you will need to download EOS from arista.com with your account.

## Why
Aboot is not easy to install on x86/x86_64 and has limitations such as lack of ACPI support, EFI, etc. Aboot also decompresses the root file system to memory. Eos_grub_loader is based on Grub2 which is the most popular Linux boot loader and is very well supported. Eos_grub_loader decompresses the root file system to disk (on each boot) hence memory is preserved. A switch usually has a low write flash medium. The expectation is that eos_grub_loader is installed on a system with a disk (preferably SSD). Disk space is also less costly on cloud infrastructure them memory. 

## How
Eos_grub_loader installs a Linux kernel, a small initrd, and Grub2 to disk (it comes in a bootable installer). On eos_grub_loader boot, the file system /mnt/flash is mounted (it looks for a disk with the label persist). Assuming that autoinit is not disabled (settings file on /mnt/flash) then the system proceeds to the next stage. A new filesystem is created on the disk with the label bootimage and mounted to /bootimage. If a previous filesystem existed it will be destroyed. The file /mnt/flash/boot-config is consulted to determine the desired SWI. The SquashFS file (rootfs-i386.sqsh) is extracted from the SWI and decompressed to /bootimage. A static settings file and tool(s) are installed to /bootimage. A fstab entry is installed to /bootimage/etc/fstab for /mnt/flash. Finally, the EOS kernel is loaded and executed. At this point eos_grub_loader dies and its memory is reclaimed by the EOS kernel. If any failure occurs or if autoinit is disabled the user can manage eos_grub_loader with the bash shell (no credentials required).

## Motivations
The motivation for this project was the difficulty of running vEOS on Ravello. As one would expect, Grub2 is well supported on the cloud and ABOOT not so much. I wanted the solution to closely match the behaviour of ABOOT, specifically that the root filesystem is created new on each boot. Initially I setup the boot_loader to decompress to memory but then decided it made more since to use cheaper disk.

## Download
A binary bootable installer can be downloaded from https://github.com/aristanetworks/eos_boot_loader/releases/download/v.1/installer.iso

## Tools
### configure.sh
The configure.sh script is available from the installer only. This script requires one arg, the disk to install the boot_loader. The configure.sh script will generate the script install.sh in the same directory.

1. configure.sh
2. install.sh (generated by configure.sh)

### Autoinit
The autoinit (/usr/bin/autoinit) script is available in the boot_loader and EOS (not the installer). It can be executed from the bash shell or from the EOS CLI. The script is used to enable/disable autoboot, show the status of autoboot and if ran inside the boot_loader it can be used to manually boot the next stage.

1. No Arg    - status
2. 'enable'  - enable autoinit
3. 'disable' - disables autoinit
4. 'boot' - boots the next stage (only available in the boot_loader)

## Build Instructions
### Setup Environment
1. [ -f /usr/bin/mock ] || sudo dnf -y install mock
2. cd ~/workspace; mkdir eos_grub_loader; cd eos_grub_loader
3. cat /etc/mock/fedora-24-i386.cfg | sed 's/fedora-24-i386/eos_grub_loader/g' > mock.cfg
4. mock -r mock.cfg --init
5. mock -r mock.cfg --install dnf git vim
6. echo "#\!/bin/bash\nmock -r mock.cfg --copyout /builddir/autoinit/dist/installer.iso ." > copyout
7. echo "#\!/bin/bash\nmock -r mock.cfg --shell" > shell
8. chmod +x shell copyout
8. ./shell
9. cp /usr/bin/vim /usr/bin/vi 
10. git clone https://github.com/aristanetworks/eos_boot_loader.git
11. cd eos_grub_loader
12. ./build.sh

### USB bootable
A bootable USB flash disk can be created with the command

1. sudo dd if=installer.iso of=/dev/[USB] status=progress

## Memory Footprint
Because the rootfile system does not consume memory it will not require the same about of memory as normal. I have tested with 1536MB but did not stress it. I am currently recommending 2048M and will revise if necessary.

## Quick Guide
1. Download installer.iso
2. Create new virutal machine with 2048M RAM, 2 core CPU and 10G disk
3. Set installer.iso as boot device (cdrom)
4. Boot. Select 'vga' install
5. At bash prompt run configure.sh && install.sh (system will reboot)
6. Cancel auto-init (control + c)
7. Set ip address on interface with ifconfig (ifconfig ens33 192.168.55.125/224 up)
8. Change directory to /mnt/flash (cd /mnt/flash)
8. Copy swi file to local (scp user@192.168.55.1:veos.swi .)
9. Write boot-config file (echo "SWI=file:/mnt/flash/veos.swi" > boot-config)
10. Boot (autoinit boot)
